---
layout: post
title: "Lost In Translation"
date: 2015-09-07 00:00:00
publish: false
categories: blog
sitemap: false

---

On our first night in Rome while exploring the nooks and crannies of the city,
we came across a local bar. The whole night it felt like the city died after 
dark but here we found a lively scene. A young man was having his bachelor party 
accompanied by his rowdy friends. His name, Roberto, written across a goofy bib 
made for the occasion. Our hostel roommate Maddie decided to buy the man a shot 
of an Italian specialty called Limoncello to celebrate. Unfortunately none of us 
spoke any Italian and our waiter didn't speak any English.

We tried a series of hand gestures. We pointed at the drink on the menu, then at 
Roberto's table, signaled downing a drink, then pointed at ourselves, rubbing 
our fingers to indicate payment. The waiter appeared to understand and indicated 
a thumbs up. He walked to Roberto's table, said something to them in Italian, 
then ended up bringing us the shot. It seems the waiter thought we were 
demanding their table to buy us a shot and they complied.  Apparently that's 
socially acceptable in Italy.

The whole mess got sorted out in the end. Roberto got his shot, we shared some 
laughs, everyone had a great time. In this case our language barrier resulted in 
a funny story, but there are times when the results are more serious.

Everywhere we've been in Europe, most people have had at least a slight grasp of 
English, despite it not being their native language. Sometimes people would 
apologize for their "poor English" when talking to us. This is ridiculous since 
we're in their country and they're speaking our language. Had I tried talking to 
them in their native language, the exchange would solely consist of greetings.

Even in French, the language I've had 12 years of schooling for, I would not be 
able to keep up a conversation the way these people with "poor English" did.  
People have to speak slower for me to understand and I'm sure to them my French 
sounds just as grammatically broken if not worse. Mostly I blame my lack of 
effort and motivation, but I also see fault in the North American education 
system.

The state of second language education in North America is abysmal. In 
Copenhagen the primary language is Danish, yet in my four day stay I did not 
meet a single person who didn't speak fluent English. Surely their school system 
must be doing something right if even people with lesser education are able to 
at least converse in a second language.

I have had great French teachers over the years. I see passion in their words as 
they try to make the material interesting for us. But most of my years were 
spent conjugating verbs and memorizing words I may never use. What I feel is 
needed is for classes to be taught entirely in French early on, for students to 
be immersed when they're in the classroom. Only in AP French, the highest level 
offered at my high school, did that happen. Unfortunately that was the fifth 
level in a four-year program, one which only required two years of second 
language education at that.

Yes, we are farther apart from countries that speak other languages so there is 
less motivation for learning them, but if we're going to require that students 
learn a second language, shouldn't we have them learn it right?

