---
layout: post
title: "20-13 Hindsight"
date: 2013-12-15 00:00:00
published: true
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/hindsight.css">

As another year draws to a close, my time spent reflecting spikes once again. No 
words can describe how incredible 2013 has been; so many adventures with friends 
old and new. This is by far the year in which I've grown the most in every sense 
of the word as well as the one I've felt the happiest overall. I don't doubt the 
growth and happiness are connected, but that's a topic for a future post.

In this I'd simply like to take a moment to think back on all the good times I 
had this year with you wonderful people, in the form of a collage. Some pictures 
represent a series of events, some represent specific days. I've included 
keywords with each memory to help lubricate the nostalgia. However, some of what 
I've enjoyed the most are the conversations and it didn't feel right to include 
those in the blurbs, so I leave those up to you to reminisce about.

<div id="collage-container">
</div>

They say every year is supposed to be better than the previous. I don't know who 
this "they" actually is, but 2013 feels like it will be hard to top. I truly 
want to thank each and every one of you who has been part of the ride. You may 
not have known it, but for sure you've personally taught me something and I am 
very grateful for that. If you're reading this and I don't know you yet, let's 
change that in the coming year!

I probably won't get a chance to post again til after the holidays so here's an 
early Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! Looking forward to all that's in store 
for 2014.

<script src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.7.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script>window.jQuery || document.write('<script src="/js/jquery-1.7.2.min.js"><\/script>')</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/masonry/3.1.2/masonry.pkgd.min.js"></script>
<script>window.Masonry || document.write('script src="/js/masonry.min.js"><\/script>')</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/jquery.lazyload/1.9.1/jquery.lazyload.min.js"></script>
<script>jQuery().lazyload || document.write('<script src="/js/jquery.lazyload.min.js"><\/script>')</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/hindsight-data.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/hindsight.js"></script>
