---
layout: post
title: "Overpaid Syndrome"
date: 2013-10-18 00:00:00
published: true
---

It's no secret that in this current day and age, people in tech make a boatload 
of money. What might not be as well known, however, is that interns also have it 
quite good. This is at least the case in the Valley; I can't speak for the rest 
of the world. Depending on the company, some interns can make close to six 
figures annualized. For the privileged students without mortgages or dependent 
family members, it's quite a bit of disposable income.

As a young adult in the industry, I am extremely grateful to have a shot at 
these kinds of opportunities -- not just because they let me pay my way through 
college, but also the real world experience helps me identify early on whether 
I'm on the right track. At the same time, due to such internships, my friends 
and I developed what we called overpaid syndrome.

Overpaid syndrome is the embodiment of the "you only live once" attitude. You 
feel like you can do whatever your heart desires and live without worries. This 
results from the dramatic change from living off of ramen to suddenly having 
abundant spending money. It helped that our work was relatively low stress 
physically and our weekends not spent doing overtime were completely free time. 
If something exciting got suggested, we had a group of people committed 
instantly. This resulted in things like a weekend bungee jumping outing to a 
week long Hawaii excursion.  Even some of our more frugal friends ended up 
developing _the syndrome_ after interning for a couple months.

When an idea was brought up, this is what went through my head: I computed the 
number of hours I'd have to work to make up for the trip. If I deemed that the 
adventure justified the hours, I was in without giving it a second thought. 
Conversely, if I was forced to do something I didn't enjoy, like shopping, I 
applied a similar mindset: "Next time I'll minimize this torture by doing it 
online... Sure it'll cost a bit more, but if I spend the hours that would be 
wasted looking for the best deal doing work instead, it'll make up for it. 3 
hours working instead of shopping equals a lot of new clothes!"

Basically time became a commodity to me. It is just as limited as everything 
else, and we only need to hoard so much wealth to be secure in ourselves. I 
  figured if I was lucky enough to be secure, why not live a little?  Never mind 
  that I can actually only work so much so those future-hours might not even 
  occur. The thought process was totally flawless. Life was grand; it felt like 
  we owned the world. It seemed like money really could buy happiness.

Of course all good things must come to an end. The clock struck midnight and our 
internships ended. I returned home to my first generation 
Chinese-American-Canadian household, where I was reminded how that $500 ski trip 
could've bought just about every electronic device in the house, and how my 
parents didn't spend even a tenth of that when they were my age. It's sometimes 
good to put things in perspective. I realized sometimes I may have gone too far 
and was foolishly wasteful. Can't let overpaid syndrome justify _all_ my 
reckless spending.

Even though the cash flow was gone, the overpaid syndrome itself seemed to still 
have residual effects. I'm in school again, but it's not quite back to the ramen 
life. Future-hours are now completely imaginary, yet I can still think in that 
fashion. If I get cheated out of a buck or two, or I don't do quite as well as I 
hoped on an exam, life moves on. I can spend my time on better things than 
freaking out and getting upset. I find I no longer stress as much about the 
little things and am overall happier because of it. My friends and I still try 
to have adventures when we can as well. We call it "bringing back the Cali". I 
may not have the money to blow on ski trips anymore, but many of the wonders in 
life are free or cheap. Hiking, for example, can be done on a budget practically 
anywhere and there's always sights to be seen.

A friend shared this quote with me, which I think rings quite true:

> Imagine there is a bank account that credits your account each morning with $86,400. It carries over no balance from day to day. Every evening the bank deletes whatever part of the balance you failed to use during the day. What would you do? Draw out every cent, of course? Each of us has such a bank. Its name is time. Every morning, it credits you with 86,400 seconds. Every night it writes off as lost, whatever of this you have failed to invest to a good purpose. It carries over no balance. It allows no over draft. Each day it opens a new account for you. Each night it burns the remains of the day. If you fail to use the day's deposits, the loss is yours. There is no drawing against "tomorrow". You must live in the present on today's deposits. Invest it so as to get from it the utmost in health, happiness and success. The clock is running. Make the most of today.

It took overpaid syndrome to show me how to enjoy more of life, and I came to 
see it wasn't actually the money that made it better. It was entirely the 
thought process -- thinking about how time is a valuable commodity in itself, 
and not letting things you don't like taking it up when possible. I don't think 
you have to be overpaid to apply it (of course it's always easier to make such 
claims when I'm on the other side of the fence). Ten years down the line will 
you actually remember how you got that one percent higher on the calculus exam? 
Or will you remember the great times you had with your loved ones?
