---
layout: post
title: "Grovember - Part 2"
date: 2013-12-05 00:00:00
published: true
---

_This article is best viewed on a modern browser or in landscape mode on a 
mobile device. Sorry, no love here for IE6._

Grovember has officially come to an end.  With over a month's worth of data 
collected, perhaps now I can gain some insights on my life. And of course, what 
fun would those be if they didn't come with some foxy graphs!

##Where is my time going?##

<div class="graph" id="category-pie"></div>

As you may recall from [Part 1]({% post_url 2013-11-21-grovember %}), my primary 
goals were programming, practicing French, and traveling. It appears I'm doing 
alright with the traveling (it takes up about 15% of my time), and not so hot 
with the rest. Sleep is inevitable, but I can work on cutting out "no goal". In 
fact, I have a sneaking suspicion that as this experiment progressed and I 
became more and more aware of where my time went, my wasted time decreased. 
Let's see if the data agrees.

<div class="graph" id="waste-line"></div>

The first week was our half-term break, so all the serious business traveling 
left no time to be wasted. After that, "no goal" spiked and indeed gradually 
came back down week by week.

"No goal" as the name implies means anything that doesn't achieve a goal of 
mine. This includes the range from grocery shopping to stalking people on 
Facebook, so not all of it can be completely removed -- Facebook is vital for 
survival. If I want to make room for more goal-oriented work, for sure the first 
place to look for change is within my internet browsing habits. Here's a graph 
of how that breaks down:

<div class="graph" id="internet-bar"></div>

My Facebook usage is frankly atrocious. I don't even know what I do on there all 
day.  Facebook has been called [the tech equivalent of 
cigarettes](http://oznathan.quora.com/Facebook-is-the-21st-century-tech-equivalent-of-cigarettes-And-now-I-can-finally-prove-it){:target="\_blank"}, 
which just goes to show that if I ever got into smoking, I'd be a hopeless 
addict.

##Digging Deeper to Deeper Sleep##

My most time-consuming category is sleep by a long shot. It accounts for 34% of 
my time! As far as I can tell sleeping for a third of our lives is normal, so I 
don't want to jeopardize my health by doing less of it. But maybe I could do 
"better" at it.

With [Sleep Cycle](http://www.sleepcycle.com/){:target="\_blank"} I track my 
quality of sleep. I haven't felt a noticeable difference on the days I 
supposedly had higher quality sleep, but it probably wouldn't hurt to figure out 
how I can optimize for it.

In this month I slept both the most and the best on Tuesdays. I slept the worst 
on Saturday and the least on Sunday. On average I slept 7.6 hours per day.

In the usual case, it looks like more sleep equals higher quality sleep. 
Therefore looking at the quality alone isn't particularly useful. Any trends may 
just be due to me sleeping more -- it makes more sense to use the ratio of 
amount of sleep to quality of sleep and see what factors affect that. I found 
the following factors to be correlated with a change in the ratio:

<div class="graph" id="sleep-diff"></div>

I expected all of those except for drinking coffee. I thought caffeine would 
negatively affect sleep. Well, coffee-drinkers rejoice! Yet another reason to 
roast that morning brew.

We see now what affects sleep, but what does sleep affect? If I'm going to be 
spending so much time on it, it better be doing something for me. I want my 
money's worth.

I wondered if I lazed around and wasted more time when I wasn't well rested, and 
if I was more social when I was well rested. I plotted my sleep along with the 
  amount of goal-less hours and time I spent with other people. Hours surrounded 
  by people don't necessarily equate to sociability, but it's the closest data 
  point I've got and it at least meant I wasn't being anti-social.

Days with gray-bordered dots are days where I slept poly-phasic. I either 
embraced the European culture of siestas or I took naps to compensate for a long 
night. That means the hours shown for those are a sum of several smaller 
sessions. They are more likely to be outliers.

If the graph is too cluttered to read, you can click on the legend to hide some 
of the lines.

<div class="graph" id="sleep-line"></div>

##My Social Network##

The second major activity on my charts is socializing. This includes everything 
from [YouTube parties](http://xkcd.com/920/){:target="\_blank"} to grabbing a 
pint at a bar.

There's not much to analyze here, but the numbers are interesting to me. 54% of 
my waking hours I spent with other people. Here's who I spent those hours with:

<div class="graph" id="people-pie"></div>

As mentioned in Part 1, most are overestimates. I still don't have a simple yet 
accurate way of recording my time with people.

47% of days that involved socializing also involved drinking. I socialized the 
most on Fridays and the least on Tuesdays. I drank most often on Friday.

##Part 3?##

I didn't get conclusive answers on some of the deeper questions. One month's 
stats weren't enough to yield patterns. Therefore I'm going to keep up the data 
collection for another while longer and analyze again in a month or two. If I 
get some fascinating new findings I'll make another post, but most likely it 
won't be worth sharing. Who knows. With the insights from this, I may experience 
drastic changes.

I'm considering adding more daily measurements as well -- my mood, my focus, 
etc. But those are very subjective, and can vary too much throughout the day, so 
it'd be hard to get an accurate depiction. I've seen [TagTime](http://tagti.me) 
and [Reporter](http://www.reporter-app.com/) but I don't think those are the 
solutions for me. I'd rather not be attached at the hips to my phone, and they 
seem like massive focus-breaking context switchers. If anyone knows of other 
solutions, I'd be happy to hear about them. I can be reached [via 
Twitter](https://twitter.com/wangfowen).

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/grovember.css">
<script src="http://d3js.org/d3.v3.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/grovember-data.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/grovember.js"></script>
