---
layout: post
title: "Copenhagen - Are You My Motherland?"
date: 2013-11-17 00:00:00
published: true

---

_In this [on-going series]({% post_url 2013-10-12-are-you-my-motherland %}) I 
examine some cities I've visited and what I've experienced to be different about 
them in the hopes of finding pride in my old homes or discovering a new place to 
call home._

Copenhagen. Our next stop after Italy. I only wanted to check it out because my 
friend Anna was studying abroad here. I knew next to nothing about Copenhagen 
and hadn't heard any talk of it, so I figured we'd just do a brief stop on the 
way to the ultimate travel destination: Amsterdam. Only just prior to departure 
did we google to find out they have an entirely different currency and 
language...

## Airport ##

Prettiest. Airport. Ever. Look at that floor. I would not hesitate to drink 
chicken noodle soup off of that. If it weren't for the gate signs I wouldn't 
even be able to tell it's an airport.

{% image /images/cph_airport.jpg "Dat immaculate flooring" %}

Baggage claim was perfectly timed so that our bags arrived the same time as us. 
We even walked at a brisk pace -- no mercy shown.  The only possible explanation 
is that they have a teleportation device in the back. There's no other way.


## Architecture ##

Copenhagen used to be a Viking village. That's why there are epic castle-esque 
buildings, beautiful canals running through the city, and people wearing horned 
helmets roaming the streets. Okay, the last one's a lie and the other two's 
existence might not have any relation to Vikings. I would still like to think 
it's all somehow connected to pillaging.

At the same time the city has no lack of modern structures. Supposedly large 
parts of the city have been burned down and reconstructed (the city hall has 
burned down twice), so it must have been easy to make way for the new. Germans 
may be the most well known for design, but the Danish can't be far behind in 
ranks.  Some of the sleek architecture...  especially placed next to the 
castles... Oof.

## Signs ##

I don't know what the exact system is for road nomenclature, but it seemed like 
even if you were walking straight on the same street, the name sometimes changed 
on you every couple blocks. For the smart phone-wielding non-Amish people, this 
could be convenient. Just mapping the street name without a number gets you 
close enough to your destinations.

Almost everything else about signs aligned with those of North America. Though 
here's a strange pedestrian cross light I saw. I'm not sure what the separation 
means, and did not see any others in the city like it.

{% image /images/cph_light.jpg "" %}


## Food ##

Food is uber expensive, so we never ate at a proper sit down restaurant. Even a 
breakfast sandwich cost in krones what's equivalent to roughly â‚¬8. Therefore I'm 
not sure if you actually tip or not at restaurants, or if you get served free 
tap water.

I also never found out what exactly Danish food is. I would have thought 
chocolate danishes were it, but locals had no idea what I was asking for. We ate 
almost exclusively fast food and street food, and they all happened to be from 
other countries. The diversity of offerings is great -- we got some sort of 
Czech potato snack, non-Italian-style pizza, and Thai takeaway.  At first I felt 
a hint of guilt for eating Asian food in Europe. All that went out the window as 
soon as the pad thai collided with my tongue. The surge of pleasure from the 
greasy, delicious noodles satisfied needs I didn't even know I had. It seems if 
I want to live in a city, there needs to be good Asian food.

{% image /images/cph_food.jpg "Not exactly pad thai, but still the best Asian food I've had in Europe so far" %}

## Public Transportation ##

Accessibility and the environment are key concepts incorporated in the public 
transportation. There are electric car charging stations all around, talking 
signs to help the blind throughout the metro, and other such nifty resources.

Even better for the environment, over 50% of people commute by bike. This may be 
a personal choice of the people, but the urban planners certainly aided in the 
adoption of such. The bike lanes are either raised up, or separated by medians 
or parked cars, allowing bikers to feel extremely secure. Even my friend who 
hates biking was willing to give it a shot because of how safe it looked.

Because of all the bikes, the city had an air of calm and quiet, yet busyness at 
the same time. Below is an example of the separated bike lanes, as well as what 
I mentioned before about the juxtaposition in the architecture.

{% image /images/cph_mix.jpg "Also, pretty colors in the sky!" %}

On top of all that, the metro gave estimates for arrival times with 30 second 
accuracy.

## Entertainment ##

There is no shortage of entertainment in Copenhagen. We didn't go, but Tivoli, 
the second oldest amusement park in the world, is located right downtown. It's 
also a pleasure garden according to wikipedia. That did not at all mean what I 
hoped it would. Christiania, the green light district, is just one canal south. 
That meant exactly what I thought.

There's also several cool museums and gardens, and just in general biking around 
the city is great fun. If you want to take it easy, even lounging around is 
awesome because of how fast wifi is practically everywhere.

And don't even get me started about the night life. Plenty of bars and clubs in 
the city and they're all open til very late. Food is open too so if you need 
some munchies after raging hard, not a problem.

{% image /images/cph_hours.jpg "??-o'clock is my favorite time of the day" %}

## People ##

Everyone spoke near-flawless English. We didn't meet a single person that 
didn't, yet people constantly apologized for how "bad" their English was (yes 
they were also all super nice, rivaling Canadians). I don't even speak Danish 
and I'm in your country.  And my proficiency in the closest European language I 
know is nowhere near your level of English. Come on now.

The people-density was just the right amount as well. Tourist destinations 
weren't crowded the way they were in Rome. I can deal with crowdedness in 
streets -- I've been to China -- but if I'm at a place trying to enjoy the 
sights, people being in my space doesn't really work for me. Basically the fun I 
experience is inversely proportional to the amount of people there are, depicted 
here in a mathematically accurate graph:

{% image /images/cph_graph.png "'dates' could also be on this graph as a sine curve" %}

## Verdict ##

I learned after my visit that Denmark is considered the [happiest 
country](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/22/denmark-happiest-country_n_4070761.html){:target="_blank"} 
on Earth and Copenhagen the [most underrated 
city](http://www.escapehere.com/destination/10-most-beautiful-and-underrated-cities-in-europe/10/){:target="blank"} 
in Europe. Guess I'm not alone in appreciating it.

If you couldn't tell already from my fan girl tone, my verdict is very much yes. 
If I could make enough of a living there and my friends came with, I would move 
in a heartbeat. We loved it so much that we ended up extending our "quick stay".

Since we stayed longer in Copenhagen, we weren't in Amsterdam long enough to 
 justify writing a post about it. I feel like a minimum of three days is 
 necessary to "properly" judge a city. My bearings are usually calibrated by day 
 three and I can find my way around without a map then. Clearly two just doesn't 
 work, the third makes all the difference.

To summarize Amsterdam, it felt like Copenhagen's inbred cousin. It had similar 
appealing characteristics, but obnoxiously loud mopeds zipped through the bike 
lanes, removing the sense of calm and safety. The main upper-hand Amsterdam has 
is prostitutes. I did not pursue that adventure so I can't comment. Don't get me 
wrong, I could see myself living in Amsterdam too. But why would I when 
Copenhagen is so close by!

