---
layout: post
title: "DeSigns Part 1: Lyon"
date: 2013-09-18 00:00:00
published: false
---

Lyon:
small airport, decent speed of metro though not great accuracy, clear street 
signs, pedestrian lights instantly change color but give you a bit of leeway to 
finish crossing. lyonnais cuisine is good.  chinese food sucks.  things not open 
for an hour or two midday. dinner is around 6-9.  night life starts around 1-2, 
  goes til maybe 5 or 6. drinks stop selling at 8.

Ah, Lyon. My new home for the next 5 months.

When I hopped off the Tram and made my way towards INSA Lyon, I could not help 
but feel disappointed. I envisioned a stunning Chateau but instead got greeted 
by a campus that beats out Waterloo for [least sexy 
campus](http://thewaterloohonk.wordpress.com/2013/06/25/uwaterloo-officially-named-canadas-least-sexy-campus/).
INSA is technically in Villeurbanne though, so I will leave that for a different 
post (spoiler: it's practically a European Detroit). Let's take a look at just 
Lyon itself.

Infuriating how relaxed everyone is. Disorganization, things not starting on 
time, people not lining up. But halfway through my friend Sam helped me change 
my mindset. I was looking at it all completely wrong. Why do I have to be in a 
rush all the time?  Maybe the French are onto something.

People walking with baguettes: 4 (counted over the course of an hour)


Barcelona:
fancy airport, great metro, pedestrian lights flash before changing but when it 
flashes you should stop. once it changes the cars go right away and don't care 
for pedestrians. if it's good you can give a euro, but people don't really do 
  it. spanish cuisine is great. chinese food not so good.  food not sold for 
  about 3 hours between lunch and dinner. dinner is around 9-10.  night life 
  starts at 3 or 4, goes all night. some people return from clubbing at noon.  
  drinks stop selling at 11.

Berlin:
small airport. there's a second one, don't know how it is. train was always on 
time. metro didn't come all that often, looked really crappy. not the amazing 
design i was expecting out of germany. clear street signs, pedestrian lights 
super cute and give you good time. tipping not mandatory, but some places when 
you use card do have a space for you to add tip. great food from all cultures, 
night life starts at 12, goes into the morning.

