---
layout: post
title: "Rome - Are You My Motherland?"
date: 2013-10-12 00:00:00
published: true
---

_In this [on-going series]({% post_url 2013-10-12-are-you-my-motherland %}) I 
examine some cities I've visited and what I've experienced to be different about 
them in the hopes of finding pride in my old homes or discovering a new place to 
call home._

Roma, the city that kicked off our travels. Let us looketh at thy main 
distinctions.

## Airport ##

Security was non-existent. As in there literally was not a customs officer in 
the booth and I just walked straight through. I may have become an illegal 
alien? Oops.

There's [a 
study](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/19/opinion/sunday/why-waiting-in-line-is-torture.html?pagewanted=all){:target="_blank"} 
that says:

> Often the psychology of queuing is more important than the statistics of the wait itself... Occupied time (walking to baggage claim) feels shorter than unoccupied time (standing at the carousel)

Romans don't seem to care about the psychological welfare of visitors. It takes 
just a couple minutes to reach baggage claim, and then you get this wait:

{% image /images/rome_baggage.jpg "It actually took even longer, roughly 50 minutes" %}

Quite an astounding statistic of wait already, even worse when its entirety is 
unoccupied.

## Architecture ##

As expected, every building is a mind-blowing mix of archaic and epic. Starting 
off in Rome might have been a bad idea; I became desensitized to magnificent 
architecture so other cities no longer seemed as impressive. One thing that 
surprised me was all the gargantuan giant-doors. Even the doors to historically 
unimportant buildings like our hostel could fit three of me stacked on top of 
each other. If that's not proof that humans coexisted with dinosaurs 2000 years 
ago, I don't know what is.

## Signs ##

I found my way around quite easily with my handy [maps 
app](http://mapswith.me/en/home). It probably would have been more difficult 
without it, since each street corner has at most one sign designating the 
intersecting road and often none for the one you're on. Why don't they budget 
for more street signs you ask? Probably because they all look like this:

{% image /images/rome_sign.jpg "Carved in stone, mounted on the side of buildings" %}

They look great, but I'm not sure that's their primary purpose. As an added 
bonus, this makes them unreadable at night.

Signs for bars, restaurants, and hotels all looked the same. "Hotel", "Bar", etc 
were all in a much larger font size than that of the actual name of the place, 
and the signs were all monochromatic in a plain font like Times New Roman 
(zing). I think they're trying to appeal to the simple tourists, making it very 
obvious what kind of service is offered at the institution.

## Food ##

In restaurants you do not get offered free tap water. The only water you can get 
is in bottles / costs money. It's not a huge expense, but it certainly felt
strange after growing up in places where free water is so commonplace.

Menus overwhelmed with the walls of text due to every item being translated into 
at least 2 other languages. Design is a huge priority for them.

If after a couple days you want something aside from pizza and pasta, good luck 
finding it. People there basically only eat Italian food, and in the purest 
sense of the word at that. It's great that they really pride in and love their 
cuisine, but I like having some variety after a while. There's really no other 
culture's foods, and you won't find Chicago-style deep dish pizzas or cheesy 
crust. Blasphemy right? All the pizzas are thin, comparatively healthy, with 
minimalistic ingredients. Maybe I've been brainwashed but I actually prefer the 
greasy ones you'd find in North America with all the crazy gimmicks like Butter 
Chicken flavor.

If a restaurant has air conditioning and/or free WiFi, they'll be sure to let 
you know with signs everywhere. Apparently those are huge selling points.

## Public Transportation ##

Tourists, be sure to get a Roma Pass. It gives you access to museums and the 
Coliseum without having to go through the lines and it gives you free access to 
the public transportation. We only used the metro once so I don't have much to 
say here. It's rather standard. The only thing worth noting is be careful of 
pickpockets. If a little kid corners you on the metro and asks for the time when 
you clearly don't have a watch, immediately guard your valuables. His friends 
are probably surrounding you and stealing your belongings.

## Entertainment ##

Aside from the obvious museums and such, we did not find much else in terms of 
entertainment. Aimlessly wandering the city at night, we managed to find just 
one bar that was open, and it wasn't even midnight yet. The city seemed to 
completely die at night. Or maybe we just visited on the wrong night / in the 
wrong areas?

## Verdict ##

Nope. Would not live here. We met great people and had a lot of fun during our 
stay, but I would not be able to handle the crowdedness and constant paranoia of 
being pick pocketed on a daily basis. I'm now also glad Toronto at least has 
some semblance of a night life and a decent diversity of foods.
