---
layout: post
title: "Grovember - Part 2"
date: 2013-12-05 00:00:00
published: true
---

_This article is best viewed on a modern browser or in landscape mode on a 
mobile device. Sorry, no love here for IE6._

Grovember has officially come to an end. With over a month's worth of data 
collected, perhaps now I can gain some insights on my life. And of course, what 
fun would those be if they didn't come with some foxy graphs!

##Where is my time going?##

<div class="graph" id="category-pie"></div>

As you may recall from [Part 1]({% post_url 2013-11-21-grovember %}), my primary 
goals were programming, practicing French, and traveling. It appears I'm doing 
alright with that last one (__traveling takes up about 15% of my time__), and 
not so hot with the rest. Sleep is inevitable, but I can work on cutting out "no 
goal". In fact, I have a sneaking suspicion that as this experiment progressed 
and I became more and more aware of where my time went, my wasted time 
decreased.  Let's see if the data agrees.

<div class="graph" id="waste-line"></div>

The first week was our half-term break, so all the serious business traveling 
left no time to be wasted. After that, "no goal" spiked and indeed gradually 
came back down week by week.

"No goal" as the name implies means anything that doesn't achieve a goal of 
mine. This includes the range from grocery shopping to stalking people on 
Facebook, so not all of it can be completely removed -- Facebook is vital for 
survival. If I want to make room for more goal-oriented work, for sure the first 
place to look for change is within my internet browsing habits. Here's a graph 
of how that breaks down:

<div class="graph" id="internet-bar"></div>

My Facebook usage is frankly atrocious. I don't even know what I do on there all 
day. Facebook has been called [the tech equivalent of 
cigarettes](http://oznathan.quora.com/Facebook-is-the-21st-century-tech-equivalent-of-cigarettes-And-now-I-can-finally-prove-it){:target="\_blank"}, 
which just goes to show that if I ever got into smoking, I'd be a hopeless 
addict.

##Digging Deeper to Deeper Sleep##

My most time-consuming category is sleep by a long shot. __Sleep accounts for 
34% of my time.__ As far as I can tell sleeping for a third of our lives is 
normal, so I don't want to jeopardize my health by doing less of it. But maybe I 
could do "better" at it.

With [Sleep Cycle](http://www.sleepcycle.com/){:target="\_blank"} I track my 
quality of sleep. I haven't felt a noticeable difference on the days I 
supposedly had higher quality sleep, but it probably wouldn't hurt to figure out 
how I can optimize for it.

In this month I __slept both the most and the best on Tuesdays__. I __slept the 
worst on Saturday and the least on Sunday__. On average I __slept 7.6 hours per 
day__.

In the usual case, more sleep equals higher quality sleep. Therefore 
observations based on the quality alone aren't particularly useful. Any trends 
may just be due to me sleeping more -- it makes more sense to use the ratio of 
amount of sleep to quality of sleep and see what factors affect that. I found 
the following factors to be correlated with a change in the ratio:

<div class="graph" id="sleep-diff"></div>

I expected all of those except for drinking coffee. I was convinced caffeine 
would negatively affect sleep. Well, coffee-drinkers rejoice! Yet another reason 
to brew that morning roast.

We see now what affects sleep, but what does sleep affect? If I'm going to be 
spending so much time on it, it better be doing something for me. I want my 
money's worth.

I wondered if I lazed around and wasted more time when I wasn't well rested, and 
if I was more social when I was well rested. I plotted my sleep along with the 
  amount of goal-less hours and time I spent with other people. I considered 
  adding the sleep-quality ratio, but I didn't know how to normalize the data in 
  a way that wouldn't cause statisticians to commit genocide.

_If the graph is too cluttered to read, you can click on the legend to hide some 
of the lines._

<div class="graph" id="sleep-line"></div>

You may have noticed some days mentioning taking naps. Those are days where I 
slept polyphasic. I either embraced the European culture of siestas or I took 
naps to compensate for a long night. That means the hours of sleep listed for 
those are a sum of several smaller sessions. They are more likely to be 
outliers.

Looking at the graph, it seems the no goal curve roughly follows the sleep 
curve, and the socialization curve is the inverse of it. Not what I expected at 
all. It might just mean that more sleep time is less social time, as opposed to 
a direct effect. And it is worth keeping in mind that hours surrounded by people 
don't necessarily equate to sociability. The no goal part of that, I have no 
explanation.

As for sleep quality, no goal follows its curve at first, then becomes the 
inverse near the end of the month. I'm going to rule that as a no relation and I 
just surged with productivity near the end of the month or something.

So the conclusion seems to be sleep has no impact on neither my hours of 
socialization nor hours wasted. I suspect it affects more so moods during those, 
which I unfortunately don't have any metrics to back up.

##My Social Network##

The second major activity on my charts is socializing. This includes everything 
from [YouTube parties](http://xkcd.com/920/){:target="\_blank"} to grabbing a 
pint at a bar.

There's not much to analyze here, but the numbers interest me. __54% of my 
waking hours I spent with other people__. Here's who I spent those hours with:

<div class="graph" id="people-pie"></div>

As mentioned in Part 1, most are likely to be overestimates. I still don't have 
a simple yet accurate way of recording my time with people.

__47% of days that involved socializing also involved drinking__. I __socialized 
the most on Fridays and the least on Tuesdays__. I __drank most often on 
Thursday and Friday__.

##Part 3?##

I didn't get conclusive answers on some of the deeper questions. One month's 
stats weren't enough to yield patterns. Therefore I'm going to keep up the data 
collection for another while longer and analyze again in a month or two. If I 
get some fascinating new findings I'll make another post, but most likely it 
won't be worth sharing. Who knows. With the insights from this, I may experience 
drastic changes.

I'm considering adding more daily measurements as well -- my mood, my focus, 
etc. But those are very subjective, and can vary too much throughout the day, so 
it'd be hard to get an accurate depiction. I've seen [TagTime](http://tagti.me) 
and [Reporter](http://www.reporter-app.com/) but I don't think those are the 
solutions for me. I'd rather not be attached at the hips to my phone, and they 
seem like massive focus-breaking context switchers. If anyone knows of other 
solutions, I'd be happy to hear about them. I can be reached [via 
Twitter](https://twitter.com/wangfowen).

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/grovember.css">
<script src="http://d3js.org/d3.v3.min.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/grovember-data.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/grovember.js"></script>
