---
layout: post
title: "Overpaid Syndrome"
date: 2013-10-17 00:00:00
published: true
---

It's no secret that in this current day and age, people in technology make a 
decent living. What might not be as well known however is that interns are able 
to make a boat load also. This is at least the case in the Valley, I can't speak 
for the rest of the world. Depending on the company, some interns can make close 
  to six figures annually.

As a young adult in the industry, I am extremely grateful for these kinds of 
opportunities -- not just because it helps me pay my way through college but 
also because of the hands-on experience it grants me. At the same time though, 
my friends and I have developed what we call overpaid syndrome.

Because our work is relatively low stress physically, we have nearly zero real 
world responsibilities as students, and we're not too concerned about finances 
(read: very lucky and spoiled), the weekends when we're not working overtime are 
completely free time. We can do whatever our hearts desire. If something that 
sounds exciting gets suggested, we'd have a group of people committed without a 
second thought. This has resulted in everything from a weekend bungee jumping 
outing to a week long Hawaii excursion.

When an idea is brought up, this is what goes through my head: I compute the 
number of hours I'd have to work to make up for the trip. If I deem that the 
adventure justifies the hours, I'm instantly down for it. Conversely, if I'm 
forced to do something I don't enjoy like shopping, I apply a similar mindset: 
I'll avoid this next time by doing it online or something. Sure it'll cost a bit 
more, but if I spend the hours that would be wasted looking for the best deal 
doing work instead, it'll make up for it. 3 hours working instead of shopping 
equals a lot of new clothes! Nevermind the fact that in the grand scheme of 
things I'm bleeding money unnecessarily, and that there's a limit to the amount 
I can actually work, and that those are imaginary future-hours that may not 
actually occur depending on the curve balls life throws at me. The thought 
process is totally flawless.

The syndrome is of course a huge generalization and doesn't apply to everyone.  
It does seem to be a trend within my tech social network though, and even some 
of our more frugal friends end up developing it after interning for a couple 
months.

It's terrible because I don't value money the way I was taught to growing up.  
Whenever I get out of California and return home to my first generation 
Chinese-American-Canadian household, I am reminded how that $500 ski trip 
could've bought just about every electronic device in the house, and how my 
parents didn't spend even a tenth of that when they were my age. It's sometimes 
good to have things put in perspective. I realize when I've been foolish and 
_too_ wasteful. Can't let overpaid syndrome justify _all_ my reckless spending.

But I wouldn't say overpaid syndrome is all bad. I find I no longer stress as 
much about the little things. That object I bought wasn't actually on sale?  
Whatever, no point arguing with the cashier. That's just a couple more minutes 
of work. I spend more time on what matters to me -- exploring all the wonders 
the world has to offer and enjoying the companionship of my friends and family.  
Time is as much of a commodity as everything else. It is just as limited, and we 
only need to hoard so much wealth to be secure in ourselves. So if we have 
enough to be secure, why not live a little?
