---
layout: post
title: "Striding Solo"
tagline: "Self discovery from traveling alone"
date: 2014-01-23 00:00:00
published: false

---

I traveled alone a couple times this semester, something I hadn't really done 
before out of fear. Not fear for my life, but fear of being alone. 

Ever since I was young I've had a problem with being alone. For me, being alone 
and being lonely were one and the same. My best studying was done in groups. We 
didn't have to be studying together, people merely had to be present. From the 
days of AIM and MSN and on, whenever I was holed up in my room I'd always be 
available on one chat program or another. This is part of why I realized during 
grovember I waste so much time -- I'm just always online.

When I first began my solo travels, my survival instincts made me join strangers 
(the opposite of what normal people do I assume). As an ambivert, even though I 
desired company, I was still painfully shy, making talking to strangers quite 
difficult. 

My friend and I did an experiment a couple years back where we talked to a 
stranger a week (link), and one week I paced in circles around a group for half 
an hour because I couldn't muster up the courage or words to say to them. A 
deeply embarrassing moment forever memorialized by the internet.

So even though I was awful at it, in order to (what I felt was needed to) 
survive, I forced myself to talk to other people. Unsurprisingly, people you 
meet in hostels and on walking tours are extremely friendly and the more I 
talked to people, the easier it became. Soon I was spending while days with 
people I'd just met. I was (am) still as awkward as ever in conversation, but I 
could at least get started with people I couldn't before. 

Hanging out for a day with strangers is great. I believe everyone has something 
you can learn from. Sometimes what they teach you is don't be like this person, 
but that's a lesson nonetheless. The less you have in common with someone the 
more room there is to learn something!

The first part of my Christmas trip I did alone and it seemed all factors were 
against me. Being the holiday season, the walking tour wasn't running, and the 
hostel I was at didn't have pub crawls, and everyone in my room were couples.  
All my avenues for meeting people were gone! What do I do? I was forced to be 
alone for once. And not the alone one does for a couple hours in an afternoon. 
Actually alone. 

This situation turned out not only to be not terrible, but also greatly 
insightful. Here I was left with hours at a time to think and reflect on 
subjects I didn't get a chance to before. My head buzzed with things connecting 
that I never thought much about before. 

At several points I found myself feeling very gracious for all my friends and 
family, and everything they've done for me. Not in a I'm lonely and I miss them 
sort of way (though I do miss everyone dearly), but in a very happy and 
appreciative way. I really don't take nearly enough time to appreciate how lucky 
I am. 

Now when I travel alone I do a combination of meeting strangers and embracing 
solitude. I'm not saying I only travel alone now. I still highly enjoy doing it 
with friends. Those are still where the best and fondest memories come from. But 
I no longer fear traveling alone and I recommend everyone give it a try 
sometime.
