---
layout: post
title: "Learning About Learning"
date: 2014-01-23 00:00:00
published: true

---

People joke that studying abroad is just [time spent dicking around](http://www.theonion.com/articles/report-more-colleges-offering-dickaround-abroad-pr,18092/){:target="_blank"}. This is not an entirely false portrayal as [my data]({% post_url 2013-12-05-grovember-2 %}) has demonstrated. Traveling, socializing, and wasting time far overshadowed studying. But that doesn't mean nothing was learned this term. Far from it actually; this has been one of my most educational semesters. Not only did I learn a surprising amount of technical concepts given how little time I was in class, I also gained many real world skills and values.

Arguably the most important of the skills I've picked up is how to learn. 
Learning is something we're always (or should always be) doing, and one can 
always do it better and more efficiently. To explain what I mean we have to 
start from the very beginning.

When I was in elementary school, my dad built me a program to practice basic 
arithmetic. I was to do a predetermined amount of addition, subtraction, 
multiplication, and division per day, then take a screen shot of each set when I 
finished as proof. I figured I could instead just do four sets of addition, then 
edit the screen shots to make it look like I did the different operations. I 
didn't actually care this stuff; I was only doing it because my parents made me.

My dad eventually picked up that something was fishy. It seemed odd that I 
cranked out the difficult division and multiplication problems at the same rate 
as the simple addition. He'd make some modifications to prevent my cheating, but 
I'd find ways around the new features, and we continued the cycle until the 
program became unhackable. By that point I mastered arithmetic as a byproduct, 
despite trying everything I could to not. It probably helped that at the ripe 
young age of 9 my brain was an information sponge.

__In elementary school, learning to me was gaming the system. I did it solely to 
please my parents.__

When I hit high school, the tricks took on a different form. Gaming the system 
now meant being good at doing assignments and taking tests. Knowing what 
teachers will be looking for, how to make stuff up to get part marks, and how to 
make better guesses for multiple choice questions. None of this actually 
required knowing any of the material, and that was fine with me. I just wanted 
good grades to get into college.

Unfortunately, in order to get the grades I wanted to get into the colleges I 
wanted, the tricks alone weren't sufficient. Most of our marks were comprised of 
assignments that I could do by simply getting word-for-word responses out of 
textbooks, but the tests were still significant enough that if I wanted A's, I 
had to do something more for them. I now had to occasionally do some _real 
learning_.

As everyone knows, the way to optimize real learning -- to do it in the shortest 
amount of time possible -- is to cram it all into my head _right_ before the 
exam. This was totally fool proof. It got me what I wanted most of the time 
(grades) and it meant I didn't have to exert mental effort for most of the 
school year. It didn't matter that I forgot everything immediately after the 
exam. When I didn't get the grades I wanted, I'd freak out and try to salvage 
the situation. It never occurred that maybe I should make changes to my study 
habits though.

__In high school, learning was committing things to short term memory. I did it 
to get into college.__

I had one particular teacher in high school who took an unorthodox approach to 
teaching -- Dr. Alan Letarte. His tests were unlike any of the practice problems 
and each one built upon the previous. They were all extremely difficult, 
requiring a deep understanding of the material along with creativity to get the 
answers. It was normal to fail the tests, but that didn't mean you failed the 
course. His grading scheme factored in how much he felt you learned and how hard 
you tried.

Essentially, there was no way to aim for marks. All you can do is aim to 
properly learn the material, and the grades naturally come with it. Dr. Letarte 
was trying to teach me to learn for the sake of learning, but I was so focused 
on getting grades that I didn't think about how it applied to things outside of 
the class.

After I got into college my motivation for learning vanished. I saw people in my 
freshmen year being as I was before: obsessed with marks. But what was the point 
of it all now? Did it really matter if I got an extra point on this exam?  A 
diploma is still a diploma. This thought process is probably why my grades 
tanked first semester and I lost my scholarship, but at least now I sought after 
a more meaningful purpose.

During this soul searching I found I actually enjoyed my classes. When I 
attended them, I wasn't taking down notes to memorize for tests anymore; I was 
writing things down because they were interesting to me. What I learned had real 
world applications and I actually wanted to know more. Derivations weren't just 
lines I had to recite and regurgitate on exams anymore, they were now 
explanations for how things worked. I inadvertently found my purpose for 
learning: to learn.

Even though my purpose changed, my methods hadn't really. Outside of class I was 
still too lazy to put in effort, and so I still crammed for exams.  But even the 
cramming felt easier since things actually made sense now. And more of the 
material stuck around in my head after the exams. Just like with Dr. Letarte's 
class, the grades naturally came.

It's funny how I can hear the same lesson a million times and it won't sink in, 
yet one day out of the blue it just does on its own. I guess they're just 
meaningless words until I'm willing to accept and apply them.

__In the first years of university, learning was still committing things to 
short term memory. I did it for the sake of learning.__

With all the free time in the world on my hands this semester, I decided to 
focus on tasks outside of academia. There are many skills I've wanted to improve 
at, but always told myself I didn't have enough time for. Well now I had the 
time.

I dove into the deep end and just did them. I told myself I had to start 
somewhere and it's normal to suck at first. You have to suck before you can get 
good.  Otherwise we'd all be masters at everything. And sure enough I sucked. I 
saw gradual improvements, but it took huge tolls on my ego and confidence. I was 
constantly frustrated with my failures and wanted to quit. I questioned why I 
was doing these things.

I eventually arrived at the conclusion I was learning them simply because they 
interested me, and this got me thinking that perhaps there was an overlap 
between learning skills and academics. When I cram for an exam, I don't just 
dive in and try to study everything all at once. I break down the subject into 
the individual modules, then think about what I need to do to learn each of 
those.

I applied this same methodology to the other skills. What are the specifics I 
want to get better at? What steps can I take to get better at each of those? 
Approaching each smaller goal was much more manageable and the progress much 
more visible. I could also space them out so I improved a bit at different 
skills each day. The busier days some got left out, but improvements still 
occurred on one or another.

Taking the analysis a step farther, I broke down specifically what I did poorly 
and focused on those.  Even things I had done for years without seeing much 
improvement changed. My confidence rose and learning became fun. It seems 
there's a pretty thin line between learning being fun and it being frustrating.

Since the methodology got revised, I applied it back to academics. That is, 
instead of cramming, doing a bit every day and analyzing where I have to 
improve. With time spent reflecting on the material, many of the previous 
courses I'd taken began connecting together in my mind. It's as if someone 
crafted what we learned into a curriculum or something.

__Now, learning is doing things habitually in manageable steps and
reflecting on how to improve along the way. I do it for the sake of learning.__

I'm sure not everyone had to go through the steps that I did to reach this final 
conclusion, but it makes me wonder if there a way to teach people -- like me 
back in the day -- who don't want to learn. Is there a way to help them reach 
the mindset to want to learn? Looking back it's a shame that I wasted all those 
years. There's so much I want to know that I'm sure got taught to me back in 
high school, but that I've since forgotten.
