---
layout: post
title: "20-14 Hindsight"
tagline: "A look back at the past year"
date: 2014-12-30 00:00:00
publish: true

---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/hindsight.css">

Another year, [another review](/blog/20-13-hindsight). 2014 went by _way_ too 
quick! Last year I discovered more of the world and more about myself - what I 
enjoy, what I excel at, what I'm bad at. This year, I embraced those discoveries 
and pushed my bounds and comfort zones further.

I spent more time thinking about the things that are important to me - improving 
myself and my relationship with others (topic for future posts). And I spent 
significantly less effort worrying about needless things.

Not getting internet karma didn't bother me anymore. Criticism didn't hurt as 
much as it used to. Rejections didn't prevent me from continuing along. And in 
general I didn't overthink nearly as much as I did before. I realized most 
people are driven by their own self-interest &mdash; there's no need to take 
things personally or to analyze every little detail of what something could have 
meant.

More of my time went into being with friends. Living more in the present and 
building deeper connections. I've said it a thousand times already, but I really 
am grateful for the support and positivity of the amazing people around me. With 
them around, I feel like I can take on anything, overcome any obstacles.

And with that said, here's some memories from the year. Most of the photos are 
stolen from my wonderful photographer friends, as I did a poor job of 
documenting this year (one of the downsides of living in the moment more / not 
being as attached to my phone). May it trigger some nostalgia for those I shared 
the memories with!

<div id="collage-container">
</div>

Last year I proclaimed 2013 would be hard to top. This year undoubtedly did just 
that. Sure, the magnitude of the epic wasn't any greater &mdash; that indeed was 
tough to beat &mdash; but I'd say the depth of friendships from this year was 
the icing on the cake. Hopefully the good vibes continue as I enter real adult 
life in 
2015. Happy holidays everyone!

<script 
src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.7.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script>window.jQuery || document.write('<script src="/js/jquery-1.7.2.min.js"><\/script>')</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/masonry/3.1.2/masonry.pkgd.min.js"></script>
<script>window.Masonry || document.write('script src="/js/masonry.min.js"><\/script>')</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/jquery.lazyload/1.9.1/jquery.lazyload.min.js"></script>
<script>jQuery().lazyload || document.write('<script src="/js/jquery.lazyload.min.js"><\/script>')</script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/hindsight-2-data.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/js/hindsight.js"></script>
