---
layout: post
title: "Path of Least Regret"
tagline: "A mentality for experiencing life"
date: 2014-08-20 00:00:00
published: true
---

I'm a sucker for catchy mottoes: "Work Hard, Play Hard", "Go Big or Go Home", 
"YOLO". If you're going to have a guiding life principle, why not let it roll 
off the tongue?

Along the same lines, I've begun to live by a mantra of my own: "Path of Least 
Regret". I know, it doesn't quite have the same ring to it, but what it means is 
this: when you're at a crossroad debating which choice to make, choose the one 
future-you will regret less. The one that would result in fewer "what if"s and 
"if only"s. Where when you look back, you'll think yes, I'm glad I chose that.

Thinking under that mindset has not only helped me make some hard decisions, but 
it has also allowed me to experience things I wouldn't have otherwise.

A silly example is when I tried salsa classes while studying abroad. Right away 
the language barrier and my poor coordination got the best of me. I stumbled in 
leading and getting the steps right. Every time we rotated partners, I could see 
my new one masking a look of annoyance at having to dance with me again.

The class severely bruised my ego. It took everything within me to not quit. 
What got me through it was remembering why I took it in the first place. I've 
wanted to learn salsa for the longest time. In part, to impress ladies back 
home. Why did it matter that currently people were annoyed with me? I wasn't 
doing it for them, I was doing it to invest in my future self. Besides, I 
wouldn't see these people again after a couple short months. If I didn't learn 
salsa just because it was hard, wouldn't future-me be mad at present-me? The 
opportunity to learn from authentic Spanish dancers doesn't come every day.

With that mentality, I stopped myself from quitting every time I thought about 
it. I kept going with the class and as I got better, the contempt my partners 
held for me dissipated. My ego recovered and I had learned the basics of 
something I'd wanted. Everyone lived happily ever after.

Often we forgo experiences because of the initial discomfort. It feels nice to 
settle into a routine. Why break the mold? Especially when it comes to trying 
something different, there will certainly be uneasiness to start as we suck and 
struggle through the learning curve. Sucking as the name implies sucks. But if 
you think about what future-you would want, wouldn't he or she have wanted to 
have learned that new skill? To have tried that thing they hadn't before? 
Unfortunately wanting something enough doesn't make it happen, which is why 
present-you has to take action towards making it happen. Even if it's unpleasant 
at the beginning.

So next time you ponder about a decision, think to yourself: POLR! ...Okay, 
maybe not. But do consider, which option would be the path of least regret.
