---
layout: post
title: "Learning About Learning"
date: 2014-01-24 00:00:00
published: false

---

People joke that a semester abroad is just time spent dicking around. Link to 
onion article. This is not an entirely false portrayal as my data has previously 
demonstrated. Link to grovember. Travel, social, and wasted time far 
overshadowed studying. But that doesn't mean nothing was learned. In fact this 
has been one of my most educational semesters. Not only did I learn a surprising 
amount given how little time I was in class, I also gained many real world 
skills and values.

Arguably the most important of which would be the ability to learn. Learning is 
something we're always doing, but one can always do it better and more 
efficiently. To explain what I mean we have to start from the very beginning. 

When I was in elementary school, my dad built me a program to practice basic 
arithmetic. It kept a log of how many I got correct, and I was tasked with 
getting an amount correct per day. I was to take a screen shot when I finished 
as proof.  @@what did I do?

I essentially did everything I could to not actually learn. Anything that 
happened to be retained in my brain was just a byproduct of the little work I 
did, and of children being information sponges. 

In elementary school, learning to me was gaming the system. I did it to please 
my parents.

When I hit high school, tricks were no longer enough. They were still part of my 
repertoire, just in a different form. Tricks now meant being good at taking 
tests. Knowing what teachers will be looking for, how to make stuff up to get 
part marks when you know absolutely nothing, and how to make better guesses on 
multiple choice exams. 

Now I occasionally had to do some real learning. Cramming

In high school, learning was committing things to short term memory. I did it to 
get into college.

Dr Letarte taught me to learn for the sake of learning. 

Lessons don't mean anything until they're actually applicable though. I can hear 
the same thing a million ways and it won't sink in until one day it just does, 
when I finally really need the lesson and when I'm finally willing to accept it.

After I got into college, my motivation for getting good grades and learning 
extra curricular activities was gone. I saw people in my freshmen year just as I 
was before, obsessed about grades. But what was the point of it all? Did it 
really matter if I got an extra point on this exam? A degree is still a degree. 
This thinking is probably part of why I lost my scholarship when my grades 
tanked my first semester, but now I was learning because I actually wanted to 
learn these things. There wasn't an end goal. And I found the more I learned, 
the better my grades inadvertently got. Like before, tricks still helped with 
test taking, and cramming still occurred when I got lazy, but now they weren't 
my main methods. 

In the first years of university, learning was doing things habitually to get it 
into long term memory. I did it for the sake of learning.

Now, learning is doing things habitually as well as reflecting on how to improve 
at it. I do it for the sake of learning.
