---
layout: post
title: "Friendshipping in 3 Easy Steps!"
tagline: "A guide to building (meaningful) relationships"
date: 2015-02-01 00:00:00
published: true

---

As I said in my [previous post](/blog/20-14-hindsight), I spent a lot of time 
reflecting about improving relationships this past year. It started with this 
Twitter conversation I eavesdropped upon between my friend Jonathan and someone 
named Nav:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p><a href="https://twitter.com/wikichen">@wikichen</a> Dude, how do you make CLOSE friends with people? Beyond the small-talk and how is your weekend crap? Been bothering me for time.</p>&mdash; Nav Dhillon (@Navjotd) <a href="https://twitter.com/Navjotd/status/445673386547503104">March 17, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

In response I essentially advised that if you open yourself up to others, close 
friendships will naturally form. Ironically, I later met Nav in real life, and I 
did not follow my own advice.

In thinking more about why that happened, I've decided becoming friends is not 
as simple as the one step of just opening up... it's actually 3 steps! (I'm sure 
in reality there's much more involved, but then it wouldn't be able to go viral 
on BuzzFeed, would it?) Nav and I had failed at an earlier step and that's why 
we're not currently best friends forever.

Before I get into these steps that will change your life, you might ask what 
does it even mean to have close friends?

In my childhood, I had some friends whom I hung out with due to the convenience 
of proximity. We'd talk about schoolwork or play games together, and that was 
the extent of our friendship. With those friends, if I ever had an issue 
unrelated to gaming or school, I'd feel uncomfortable asking them for advice.

With my current friends, I can talk to them about anything and everything, 
whether it be sexual, financial, or philosophical. I'd say that's the difference 
that closeness brings. A close friend you can trust with personal matters. You 
can turn to them for help without feeling discomfort, and they'd be there for 
you. They've got your back.

Meaningful friendships not only [ameliorate bad 
situations](http://www.centreforconfidence.co.uk/flourishing-lives.php?p=cGlkPTIwMSZpZD03ODg=){:target="_blank"}, 
they also [make good situations even 
better](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/without-friends-or-family-even-extraordinary-experiences-are-disappointing/){:target="_blank"}.

If you already have a close social group, you may think this guide won't be of 
any use to you, but maybe this can help you get even closer! At the same time, 
it's still good to make new friends. If we hang out solely with one group of 
people, over time groupthink develops and thought patterns converge. This is 
good in reducing social friction, but it means we become stagnant. New friends 
can provide different perspectives and challenge our beliefs.

Developing and deepening friendships is a life long process and we can always 
get better at it. So without further ado, here's my guide to friendshipping. 

##1. Get in the right mindset##

Some days you might not like yourself. Some days you can't deal with other 
people. That's all okay, it happens to the best of us. But on those days it's 
probably not ideal for you to be making friends. Ideal conditions are when 
you're feeling positive and talkative.

Generally, people like positive energy. It's infectious and it makes them feel 
better. Friends may put up with negativity, but why would someone you just met 
want to deal with that if they don't have to? Maybe you can make it work 
regardless, but I find that when I'm feeling positive, it's even easier on 
myself to try to meet people.

If positivity is not your thing, at the bare minimum it's necessary to get in a 
mood to talk. A core component in meeting someone is the conversation you share. 
That conversation could potentially lead into a friendship, so be mindful to 
actively partake.

This step is where Nav and I went wrong. We met at a networking event where I 
had already been drained from all the socializing, so when we spoke, I was not 
in the proper state and it was hard for us to hit it off.

##2. Build rapport##

Surprisingly, not everyone shares the exact same interests as me. Conversation 
doesn't work out when one person talks about something of interest to them, but 
the other person doesn't care. When there's no reciprocated caring, that's where 
the "small talk and how is your weekend crap" occurs.

One way to solve this is to find common interests we can both talk about and 
care about. But if we can't find one, another way is to try to care about their 
interests. If I don't know anything about the subject, it's a good chance to 
learn something new about it! Making an effort to listen and actually care
goes a long way.

If you can't find a common interest, and even when you try to probe and learn 
more about theirs you find it's not working out, then maybe it just doesn't work 
out. Sometimes you can't seem to find that mutual attraction no matter what. 
Maybe that means the other party didn't achieve step 1, or they're just not 
interested in you. That happens. It sucks, but don't let it stop you from trying 
to connect with other people!

##3. Open up##

As I originally hypothesized, I still think this is the most important step. But 
you can only get to here once you've done the other two and you've already 
established a friendship. If you open up to someone you just met, they may use 
what they learn against you, or they might just think you're crazy.

Common interests fuel conversation, which is what creates friendships, but trust 
is what creates meaningful friendships. Building trust involves sharing things 
about yourself beyond just your interests - your feelings, personal matters in 
your life, your insecurities, etc. And you may find that when you open up, the 
other person does too!

Sharing your feelings is not a sign of weakness. I'd even daresay it's a sign of 
strength. It means you're not afraid of putting yourself out there. Even though 
there's always the chance that you could get hurt, you're willing to take that 
risk to connect emotionally with others.

Yes, sometimes if you open up to the wrong people, it'll come back to bite you, 
but if you've managed to build rapport and they don't seem to be of shady 
character, then more often than not, trusting is not a bad thing.

##4. Profit!##

If you've followed the 3 steps, you should have now made a new best friend. 
Congratulations! Joking aside, I do hope these steps help you to build more 
meaningful friendships. Let me know if you think the process can be improved, or 
if the steps work for you!
