---
layout: post
title: "How to Make Friends in 3 Easy Steps!"
tagline: "A guide to building (meaningful) relationships"
date: 2015-02-01 00:00:00
published: true

---

As I said in my [previous post](/blog/20-14-hindsight), I spent a lot of time 
reflecting about improving relationships this past year. It started with this 
Twitter conversation I eavesdropped upon between my friend Jonathan and someone 
named Nav:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p><a href="https://twitter.com/wikichen">@wikichen</a> Dude, how do you make CLOSE friends with people? Beyond the small-talk and how is your weekend crap? Been bothering me for time.</p>&mdash; Nav Dhillon (@Navjotd) <a href="https://twitter.com/Navjotd/status/445673386547503104">March 17, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I of course nosily inserted myself into the conversation. Not knowing how to 
properly use Twitter, my responses aren't coherent enough to paste here. I 
essentially advised that if you open yourself up to others, close friendships 
will naturally form. Ironically, I later met Nav in real life, and I did not 
follow my own advice.

In thinking more about the subject, I've decided it's not as simple as the one 
step of just opening up... it's actually 3 steps! (I'm sure in reality there's 
much more involved, but then it wouldn't be able to go viral on BuzzFeed, would 
it?)

Before we get into the three steps that will change your life, why am I writing 
about this? As my college days comes to an end, and as I enter the adult world, 
I'll have to make new friends again. What a bummer. To make things worse, this 
time I won't have the magnetic pull of school to bring people into my proximity. 
So to prepare myself, I'm writing down my thoughts into an easy-to-follow 
format.

Making friends can be hard. I'm sure Nav is not alone in wanting to be able to 
get closer to people. Friends [ameliorate bad 
situations](http://www.centreforconfidence.co.uk/flourishing-lives.php?p=cGlkPTIwMSZpZD03ODg=){:target="_blank"}, 
and they [make good situations even 
better](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/without-friends-or-family-even-extraordinary-experiences-are-disappointing/){:target="_blank"}.

If we already have a close social group, we could always get closer! At the same 
time, it's still good to make new friends. If we hang out solely with one group 
of people, over time groupthink develops and thought patterns converge.  This is 
good in reducing social friction, but it means we become stagnant. New friends 
can provide different perspectives and challenge our beliefs.

Developing and deepening friendships is a life long process and we can always 
get better at it. So without further ado, here's my guide to friendshipping. 
When trying to make new friends, start at step 1. With old friends you want to 
get closer to, you may be at step 2 or 3.

##1. Get in the right mindset##

Some days you might not like yourself. Some days you can't deal with other 
people. That's all okay, it happens to the best of us. But on those days it's 
probably not ideal for you to be making friends. Ideal conditions would be when 
you're feeling positive and talkative.

Generally, people like positive energy. It's infectious and it makes them feel 
better. Friends may put up with negativity, but why would someone you just met 
want to deal with that if they don't have to? Maybe you can make it work 
regardless, but I find that when I'm feeling positive, it's even easier on 
myself to try to meet people.

If positivity is not your thing, at the bare minimum it's necessary to get in a 
mood to talk. Establishing a friendship is a two way street, so you should put 
in the effort to hold your end of the conversation.

This step is where Nav and I went wrong. We met at a networking event where I 
had already been drained from all the socializing, so when we spoke, I was not 
in the proper state and it was hard for us to hit it off.

##2. Build rapport##

Surprisingly, not everyone shares the exact same interests as me. Therefore, 
when I talk to someone, we're trying to find our common interests to talk about.

Conversation doesn't work out when one person talks about something of interest 
to them, but the other person doesn't care. When there's no common interests, 
that's where the "small talk and how is your weekend crap" occurs.

Sometimes I'm unable to find common ground with the other person. This is where 
I try to take an interest in something they enjoy. You never know what you may 
learn about a subject you didn't previously think you cared about.

And if that still doesn't work, then maybe it just doesn't work. Sometimes you 
can't seem to find that mutual attraction no matter what. Maybe that means the 
other party didn't achieve step 1, or they're just not interested in you. That 
happens. It sucks, but don't let it stop you from trying to connect with other 
people!

If you find it often not working out, and you want to change that, try 
developing more hobbies or traveling more. Not only do they open your mind, they 
also allow you to have more interesting talking points wherein you could 
potentially develop that mutual interest.

##3. Open up##

As I originally hypothesized, I still think this is the most important step. 
Common interests create conversation, but trust is what creates meaningful 
friendships. Building trust involves sharing things about yourself beyond just 
your interests - your feelings, personal matters in your life, etc.

Sharing your feelings is not a sign of weakness. I'd even dare say it's a sign 
of strength. It means you're not afraid of putting yourself out there. Even 
though there's always the chance that you could get hurt, you're willing to take 
that risk to connect emotionally with others.

Yes, sometimes if you open up to the wrong people, it'll come back to bite you, 
but if you've managed to build rapport and they don't seem to be of shady 
character, then more often than not, trusting is not a bad thing.
