---
layout: post
title: "A Guide to Friendshipping"
tagline: "How to build meaningful relationships"
date: 2015-02-01 00:00:00
published: false

---

As I said in my previous post, I spent a lot of time thinking about friendships 
this past year. It started with this Twitter conversation I eavesdropped upon 
between my friend Jonathan and someone named Nav:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" lang="en"><p><a href="https://twitter.com/wikichen">@wikichen</a> Dude, how do you make CLOSE friends with people? Beyond the small-talk and how is your weekend crap? Been bothering me for time.</p>&mdash; Nav Dhillon (@Navjotd) <a href="https://twitter.com/Navjotd/status/445673386547503104">March 17, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I inserted myself into the conversation, but not knowing how to properly use 
Twitter, my response isn't coherent enough to paste here. I essentially advised 
that if you open yourself up to others, close friendships will naturally form. 
Ironically, I later met Nav in real life, and I did not follow my own advice.

In thinking more about friendships, I've come to realize there's more to it than 
just opening up. Otherwise, anyone who did that would be friends with everyone!  
I've now condensed making meaningful friendships into a 3 step process. I'm sure 
in reality there's much more involved, but then it wouldn't be able to go viral 
on BuzzFeed, would it?

##Motivation##

Before we get into it, why am I writing about this? As my college days comes to 
an end, and as I enter the adult world, I'll have to make new friends again. 
Only this time, I won't have the ease of meeting people that the magnetic pull 
of school afforded me. So the prepare myself, I'm writing down my thoughts into 
a simplified easy-to-follow format.

Making friends can be hard. I'm sure Nav is not alone in wanting to be able to 
get closer to people. Close connections help soften bad situations, and they 
make good situations better. <citation>

And even when we've already established a close friend group, I think we can 
always go deeper! At the same time, it's still good to try to make new, 
meaningful friends. If we hang out with the same people for too long, we 
converge on thought patterns, and though that means there's less friction in the 
social group, it means we also become more stagnant. New friends can provide 
different perspectives and challenge.

Making friends is a life long process and we can always get better at it. So 
without further ado, here's my guide to friendshipping:

##1. Enter the mindset to make friends##

Some days you don't like yourself. Some days you can't deal with other people. 
That's all okay, it happens to all of us. But on those days it's probably not 
ideal for you to be making friends.

In my experience, people like positive energy. Maybe you can make it work 
regardless, but I find it easier to talk to people when I'm in a good mood. And 
be in a mood to talk to people.

I think this is where Nav and I went wrong. We met at a networking event where I 
had already been drained from all the socializing, so when we spoke, I was not 
in the proper state and it was hard for us to hit it off.

##2. Build rapport##

Surprisingly, not everyone shares the exact same interests as me. Therefore, 
when I talk to someone, we're trying to find our common interests to talk about.

Conversation doesn't work out when someone talks about something of interest to 
them, but the other person doesn't care about. When there's no common interests, 
that's where the "small talk and how is your weekend crap" occurs.

Sometimes we're unable to find common ground with the other person.  This is 
where I try to take an interest in something new. You never know what you may 
learn about a subject you didn't previously think you cared about.

And if that still doesn't work, then it just doesn't work. Sometimes you just 
can't seem to find that mutual attraction. Maybe they didn't achieve step 1, or 
they're just not interested in you. That happens. It sucks, but don't let it 
stop you from trying again with someone else. 

If you want to get better at this step, try developing more hobbies, or 
traveling more. Not only do they open your mind, they also allow you to have 
more interesting talking points wherein you could potentially develop that 
mutual interest.

##3. Open up##

As I originally hypothesized, I still think this is the most important step.  
Once you get to a point where you have rapport, try to let your guard down 
sometimes. Sharing your feelings is not a sign of weakness. I'd even dare say 
it's a sign of strength. It means you're not afraid of putting yourself out 
there. Even though there's always the chance that you could get hurt, you're 
willing to take that risk to connect emotionally with others.

Yes, sometimes if you open up to the wrong people, it'll come back to bite you, 
but if you've managed to build rapport and they don't seem to be of shady 
character, then more often than not, trusting is not a bad thing.

