---
layout: post
title: "Imperfection"
tagline: "Reflections from my quarter life crisis"
date: 2016-10-17 00:00:00
publish: true

---

Growing up, I had a vision of "the perfect life". The description of it changed 
as I did, but there was always something to continue to strive for that was out 
of reach.

That is, until there wasn't.

Now that I've graduated for over a year, this could very much be the life that
I'll be living for the next long while. I'm in beautiful California with my
closest friends, making decent money. I have reasonable work hours at a
fulfilling job, and some flexibility to travel. On paper, life is everything 
that I was going for in my latest vision. I had nothing further that I cared to 
attain.

Yet I was not content.

I began to find issue with the tech scene. The monoculture, the gentrification.
I saw problems with my work, and I even became jaded with traveling, seeing it
as diminishing returns, talking to the same kinds of people no matter where I
went.

I couldn't justify the discontentment. How could I feel like this? This is what 
I had worked so hard to get to. So many other people would love to have this 
kind of life. I felt like I need to change something somehow. Maybe my location 
or my profession. I didn't know what, but this couldn't be it, right?

##Discontentment links us all

I talked to and read about other people who seemed to have "made it", and the 
more people I heard from, the more evident it became that there isn't really 
such a thing as a perfect life. Everyone had problems, regardless of their 
status or achievements. Sometimes we get painted an unrealistic image from 
social media and it's hard to imagine others' complexities.

Travel bloggers get to experience the world but they have unstable schedules and 
deal with long bouts of loneliness. All-stars that shatter world records still 
fight with [identity
crises](http://www.espn.com/espn/feature/story/_/id/16425548/michael-phelps-prepares-life-2016-rio-olympics){:target="_blank"}.
People with more money than they know what to do with struggle with [living up
to
expectations](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2015-10-01/children-of-the-yuan-percent-everyone-hates-china-s-rich-kids){:target="_blank"}.
Friends who had it easy on Tinder found it devalued love for them &mdash; why 
try when another opportunity is just a swipe away?

What people faced had varying degrees of consequence to the outside world, but 
for each the inner turmoil seemed equally difficult to combat.

Maybe ultimately that's what's we all have in common. No matter what stage of 
life we're in, we'll still find problems. We'll still experience dissatisfaction 
with our status quo. There's even a term in social psychology for this &mdash; 
hedonic adaptation. When something great happens too frequently, we adjust our 
baseline happiness to it, and it no longer feels great.

##Two options to contentment

So what can we do about this? The obvious solution is to make a change. If we 
know what we're unhappy about, adjust what we can until we're happy. That's 
often the default solution when we're chasing a dream, when we're blinded to 
what could be wrong on the other side.

But what if we can't make a change? What if we're not privileged enough to have 
options, or we're so privileged as I was that there's nothing further to change?

The other solution is acceptance. Recognizing that different isn't always better 
and knowing that there'll always be some bad bits. We can be mindful and find 
gratitude for what we have, getting more out of the good times, and 
simultaneously, adjust our expectations for the bad and be okay with its 
existence. The unhappiness may still come, but that's simply part of being 
human. It's kind of amazing actually that we feel such a range of emotions.

So sometimes we may seem stuck with one, but when we're not, and if changing 
isn't always the best solution, how do we decide which to go with? How do we 
balance ambition and affirmation?

Unfortunately I still don't have a good heuristic for that. It really varies 
case by case, but I think just seeing that we have two options puts us in a 
better place than thinking we're confined to one.

#My aftermath

What have I chosen to do in my situation? I guess I'm doing a mix of both. I'm 
accepting that I have it quite good, and it's okay that sometimes it still feels 
bad. I'm accepting the Bay area for what it is. [The best parts of
a culture are also its
worst](https://markmanson.net/prove-yourself){:target="_blank"}, so as flawed as
the tech scene seems, there are many perks that come with it, and I'm actually 
appreciating those more now. And traveling the way I did before may feel like 
diminishing returns, but there are other ways I can still experience other 
places, like living there for longer periods of time to interact more with 
locals.

I'm still planning to make a drastic change in my life, but it's not that I need 
it now, but because I'd like to try it before I have real duties to deal with, 
when it'd be irresponsible for me to do so. A chance to explore what else is out 
there, to gain a better understanding of others outside of our bubble.

Is this the right choice? I don't actually know. But that's okay! That's part of 
the beauty of living life: If we made perfect decisions and had perfect lives, 
life would be damn boring.
