---
layout: post
title: "Pathfinding Satisfaction"
tagline: ""
date: 2016-10-20 00:00:00
publish: false

---

I previously talked about [how engineering shaped the way I 
thought](/blog/engineers-mindset-for-life). I left one concept for later &mdash; 
methodical searching &mdash; and that later is now.

Search is a whole sub realm of computer science. It's a core piece of most 
technology, even when we don't know it. The obvious would be search engines, 
locating information you want across the entire internet. Online dating apps, 
matching your soul mate from within the vast expanse of the dating pool. But 
even self driving cars partially are relying on search. In deciding how to get 
somewhere and avoid crashing into obstacles (people), they're finding the most 
efficient and safest path to take.

<gif of self driving car>

Depending on the problem space, you'll want to search differently, but however 
it's done, it's done according to an algorithm, some structured methodology.

Many of our daily life struggles can also be seen as search problems. Deciding 
where to eat for dinner. Trying different techniques to reduce the mundanity of 
a task we're forced to do. All of these have potential to be done better with 
some structure in our searching.

But the one I want to focus on is the big granddaddy of them all: finding 
satisfaction within our lives.

Generally, when we look at search problems, we have one parameter to optimize, 
to find the "best" for. In life, we optimize for many things. Money, fame, 
happiness, etc. It's impossible to have it all: when we increase one, often it 
comes at the cost of decreasing another. Maybe to become happier you have to 
change jobs which decreases finances.

For the sake of simplicity, I'm just going to talk about optimizing one aspect 
of life, but in reality we'd be thinking like this for several facets at once, 
making trade-offs between which we want more of at any given moment.

The area I currently care most about for my own life is satisfaction. This could 
be the subject of a whole other post, but I define life satisfaction as a mix of 
happiness and 
[meaning](http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2013/01/theres-more-to-life-than-being-happy/266805/).  
Happiness is transient and fluctuating, but satisfaction is the enduring 
baseline. This is clearly not a rigorous definition, nor do I scientifically 
quantify it. It's a hand wavy measurement based on how I feel relative to prior 
satisfaction levels.

Graph of hill climbing for one hill
Graph of hill climbing being non optimal Graph of simulated annealing to get to 
higher optima 

Life doesn't quite work like simulated annealing since you can't do several 
different runs of life. However, the graph is endless and there are many optimas 
you can go to, and it's possible to try to return to a similar optima. And you 
don't know what the ultimate optima is, but you can try to get to a higher one 
than where you're currently at.

3D graph of time vs life choice vs happiness. 

Becoming complacent is when you hit a local optima and no longer do anything 
different that can improve things. Your happiness will likely fade when you're 
stagnant because of hedonic adaptation (link to prior post), and depending on 
where you go from there, you may slowly spiral down, or if you find a different 
mindset (acceptance), you can stay pretty consistently in that local optima.

However, it is unlikely you'll go much higher from there. If you want to 
increase the baseline, some form of change has to occur. 

As we see in simulated annealing, if you think you're already pretty optimal, it 
wouldn't make any sense to do anything too drastic. You'd want to make small, 
intentional changes. Maybe try a new experience or meet some new people, perhaps 
something like Learning Night.  It may feel scary to do this because it takes 
inertia and initial discomfort to get out of our comfort zones, but you wouldn't 
get yields otherwise -> small changes in the curve could find a bigger jump.
It's also important to note that it's impossible to tell what will be on the 
other side of that hill. If you go into it expecting for satisfaction to 
increase, or solely with the goal of increasing satisfaction, that's not going 
to work out well. Make the change because it's something that has interested 
you. Because why not? Maybe it'll take you climbing hundreds of these hills 
before you find the big kahuna. 

Now, sometimes life throws curveballs at you. Even if you don't want any change, 
sometimes it's out of your control. Perhaps a death or a breakup. Negative 
events may bring us down way low, but we don't have to remain there. From 
simulated annealing, we know that when we're at a low point, we're more willing 
to take bigger risks. Maybe we reevaluate and overhaul all the things we've done 
wrong or we find some sort of meaning that puts our lives on a different path -> 
giant dip, followed by giant jump.
