---
layout: post
title: "Imperfection"
tagline: ""
date: 2016-10-13 00:00:00
publish: false

---

Growing up, I always had a vision of "the perfect life". The description of it 
changed as I did, but there was always something to continue to strive for that 
was out of reach.

That is, until it wasn't.

I was living in beautiful California with my closest friends, making decent 
money, had reasonable work hours at a fulfilling job, and flexibility to travel. 
It was everything I was going for in my latest iteration of my life concept. I 
had nothing further that I cared to attain.

Yet I was not content.

I began to find issue with the tech scene. The monoculture, the gentrification. 
I also saw problems with my work, and I even became jaded with traveling, seeing 
it as diminishing returns, talking to the same kinds of people no matter where I 
went.

How could this be? This is what I had worked so hard to get to. So many other 
people would love to have this kind of life. How could I justify not being 
perfectly happy with how things are?

As it turns out, there really isn't perfection. Everything has a trade-off, 
sometimes it's just hard to see when we're blinded by our pursuits. A lifestyle 
where you travel all the time can result in loneliness and instability. Having 
it easy on Tinder devalues love, making it harder to try at relationships.

And everyone has problems, regardless of where they are in life. All stars that 
break world records still fight with [identity 
crises](http://www.espn.com/espn/feature/story/_/id/16425548/michael-phelps-prepares-life-2016-rio-olympics). 
People with more money than they know what to do with struggle with [living up 
to 
expectations](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2015-10-01/children-of-the-yuan-percent-everyone-hates-china-s-rich-kids).

You could argue that these are nice problems to have, and I do agree there are 
much worse problems to be had, but from the point of view of the person 
experiencing the problems, I'd say they're just as tumultuous to face as any 
other. Other people's inner demons may look different from ours, but I'm sure 
they feel equally terrible to combat.

Maybe in the end that's ultimately what's common about being human, regardless 
of where you are in life. Dissatisfaction with our status quo. There's even a 
term in social psychology for this. Hedonic adaptation. When something great 
happens too frequently, we adjust our baseline happiness to it, and it no longer 
feels great.

So how can we escape this dissatisfaction? Will we never be happy with what 
we've got? I think by recognizing that there are trade-offs and therefore never 
perfection, we can adjust our expectations accordingly and get out of the 
vicious cycle. The unhappy feelings may still come, but we can accept them for 
what they are. It's actually part of the beauty of being human, that we feel 
this range of emotions regardless of where we are. It's a reminder that we're 
alive.

That isn't to say that we shouldn't seek more. But to recognize that we have two 
choices at any given point. We can choose to accept, or we can choose to make a 
change. By seeing that we actually have two choices, we can selectively pursue 
more when appropriate, and see that sometimes things are okay as is.

So how do you decide when to do which? The grass is always greener, but we still 
should have standards and aspirations. Where do we draw the line?

Unfortunately that's still something I'm struggling with finding a heuristic 
for. The usual approach is to weigh the pros and cons and if the pros outweigh 
  the cons, accept it as it is. But often when we're chasing a dream, we don't 
  see the cons of that lifestyle, so of course it seems perfect and we make 
  changes towards it. And conversely, once we're in the "perfect life", it can 
  be easy to default to acceptance. We now see the cons, but it may seem like 
  accepting it is the only viable solution, since we don't see the pros of 
  making a change. It takes inertia and initial discomfort to get out of our 
  comfort zone.

What am I choosing to do in my own situation right now? I guess I'm doing a mix 
of both. I'm accepting what I've got, both the good and bad. The best parts of a 
culture are also its worst, so as flawed as the Bay Area is, there are many 
perks that come with it. And traveling the way I've always done it may be 
getting old for me, but there are other ways I can still experience other 
places, like living there for longer periods of time to interact more with 
locals.

I'm still planning to make a change in my life, but it's not because I need it, 
but because I'd like to try a change before I have real responsibilities and it 
becomes impossible to do so. A chance to explore what else is out there, to gain 
more empathy for others outside of our tech bubble. It may seem like I'm making 
life worse unnecessarily, but I wouldn't know unless I tried.

Is this the right choice? I don't actually know. But you know what? That's okay! 
That's part of the beauty of living life. If we made perfect decisions and had 
perfect lives, life would be damn boring.

Life is like sailing a boat, you set a direction to go and try to steer as close 
to it as possible, but sometimes winds will push you off course, and all we can 
do is adjust and adapt.
