---
layout: post
title: "An Engineer's Mindset For Life"
tagline: "How I view the world due to my career"
date: 2016-07-12 00:00:00
publish: false

---

A product manager friend once told me that in his line of work he thinks a lot 
about funnels - that's usually how growth is modeled - and he'd begun looking at 
other aspects of life through a similar lens.

{% image /images/funnel.png "Not the liquid or cake kind" %}

I've been working full time as an engineer for almost a year now, and it's 
gotten me wondering how that's shaped my own views.

I've narrowed it down to three major concepts: optimization, failure modes, and 
methodical searching. In this post I'll just talk about the first two, as the 
third is a whole beast of its own.

###Optimization###

There is never a silver bullet that solves every possible problem. Instead you 
have to choose which problems are the most pressing and optimize for solving 
just those, while neglecting (or less optimally solving) the others.

If you want your algorithm to run faster, usually you'll need to use more 
memory. If you want to decrease your servers' downtime, you'll need to increase 
the complexity of your deployment process, which generally increases developer 
time costs. The important thing to know is that it's impossible to optimize for 
everything.

Applying that to the real world, time management is a huge one for me. I don't 
have enough waking hours for everything I want to do, so I have to evaluate what 
I want most. If I want to meet more new people, then I have less time to spend 
with my existing friends. Or if I spend large portions of time on both, then I 
have less time for self improvement.

There are some micro-optimizations I could do, like doing self improvement 
activities with existing friends. But in the end, it's still not possible to 
achieve it all. So which of these desires do I actually care the most about?

I try to quantify as best as I can what exactly I'd be giving up, and what I'd 
be gaining. I weigh the options and I remind myself that there's not a perfect 
solution, and that often helps me come to terms with the decisions that I make.

###Failure Modes###

Whenever we're designing a system, we have to consider what could be bottlenecks 
and points of failure down the line. And if a failure does occur, how would the 
system react?

If a social media site stored its posts in different databases sorted by the 
posts' identifiers, then a database might go down if a post goes viral. What if 
they were sorted by the user's identifiers instead? What could fail then, and 
when?

It's crucial to poke holes at the system and preemptively think about potential 
problems and how to handle them, so that when something does go awry, the 
consequences aren't terrible.

Looking at life like this, I often think to myself: realistically what are all 
the ways this could go wrong? Thinking in this way allows me to address issues 
before they occur, and has helped me rationalize and overcome many of my fears.

When I was at a stage in my life where I had anxiety in talking to new people, 
part of what helped me overcome it was thinking about the failure cases and 
realizing how trivial the consequences were in those situations. The other 
person isn't interested in talking, so they decline to partake. They don't give 
you another thought and both your lives move on. They say something mean, or 
they flat out ignore you? You feel briefly humiliated, but again, within moments 
neither of you will think about each other again and your lives move on. It's 
really not so bad.

Overall, this mindset has helped me justify certain risks, and convinced me to 
not take certain other ones. But sometimes, thinking about failure modes gets in 
the way. If a friend tells me about their upcoming plans, sometimes I can't help 
but play devil's advocate and I may appear unsupportive and pessimistic.

###What About You?#

None of what I mentioned above is unique to engineering, I'm sure people of 
other disciplines think in similar manners. I suspect other careers would mold 
us in similar ways, but through different vocabulary.

I'm very intrigued to find out what commonalities there are among different 
disciplines' ways of thinking, and I'm especially curious about what differences 
there may be.

So how do you think _your_ discipline has changed how _you_ think? I'd love to 
hear your responses!
