---
layout: post
title: "Manageable Adversity"
tagline: "My mission statement for the next while"
date: 2017-07-07 00:00:00
publish: false

---

I don't think myself to be particularly ambitious &mdash; I don't share the rest 
of Silicon Valley's desire to create unicorns, disrupt other industries, or eat 
the world with software. All I want out of my work is to build tools that better 
the world somehow. As I'm soon to be job hunting again, I wanted to sort through 
my thoughts on what exactly that means to me; to form some structure around what 
I want to change in our current society.

Part of why I'm writing this is also to make a request from you, dear reader. 
I've boxed the problem space in my mind somewhat, but as you'll see it's still 
plagued with vaguery. My thoughts are formed from very limited readings, 
conversations with friends, and what's been brooding in my own head. I'd love to 
hear solutions from others that are better educated on the subject(s). Or if you 
have recommendations for related readings or tech job openings, please let me 
know!

##The Role of Adversity

Overcoming adversity has been shown to help us build resilience (while 
resilience also helps us better overcome adversity...), and resilience has been 
strongly correlated with happiness.

I also personally believe that dealing with hardships make our lives more 
interesting and meaningful. They help us develop uniquely, while at the same 
time help us relate and connect to others that've faced similar trials.

But some hardships seem clearly unnecessary for people to be facing, and some of 
it too extreme. Facing a breakup does not have the same consequences as being a 
refugee in a war-torn country. What exactly is the line? If it actually wouldn't 
be good to eliminate all adversity, what adversity should be eliminated from the 
world?

##All-consuming Adversity

I was watching Pursuit of Happyness a while back, and one scene particularly 
stood out to me. Will Smith was forced to sleep in a public bathroom with his 
son for a night because an unfortunate setback caused him to be unable to afford 
rent, and they couldn't get a spot in the homeless shelter that night. Seriously 
A+ acting on his part, the shame and tears in his eyes at having had to resort 
to that felt so real, the fear of not being able to provide for his son.

Another similarly poignant moment was from the show Atlanta. Donald Glover's 
character Earn was looking to make some quick cash from a pawn shop, and his 
friend Darius told him he could make him more than what the store offered. In 
the end it turned out Darius invested that money in something that'd be worth 
$4000 down the line, to which Earn responded:

> Van needed that money. My daughter needed that money. Not in September, but 
> today. See, I'm poor, Darius. And poor people don't have time for investments 
> because poor people are too busy trying not to be poor. I need to eat today, 
> not in September.

ADVERSITY THAT CAUSES US TO NOT MEET BASIC SURVIVAL NEEDS MAKES IT HARD TO 
CONSIDER ANY OTHER ASPECT OF LIFE, IT'S ALL THAT'S ON THEIR MIND. IT PERMEATES 
INTO OTHER ASPECTS OF LIFE. THAT'S TOO MUCH
While I can't relate to either of these events having not experienced anything 
like them myself, I was left with an unsettled feeling thinking about how when 
we can't meet our basic survival needs, it's hard to consider other aspects of 
life, like investing in the future, which I take for granted as a given to be 
doing.

STAT ABOUT LESS INCOME AND HAPPINESS. THE WAY I SEE THAT NOW IS LESS INCOME 
RESULTS IN TOO MUCH THOUGHTS ON MIND, TAKES AWAY FROM ENJOYMENT OF EVERYTHING 
ELSE

WE SAW THIS AS WE WERE TRAVELING TOO

##Uncontrollable Adversity

Self-help articles often proclaim you should take responsibility for your 
actions, to acknowledge you have control over the situation. Embrace risks, be 
positive, etc. I think those help some people, but in some cases there really is 
no choice.

ADVERSITY THAT IS OUTSIDE OF OUR CONTROL FEELS IMPOSSIBLE TO OVERCOME WHEN 
THERE'S NO OTHER OPTIONS. WHAT FALLS INTO THIS CATEGORY?

When people feel like they don't have control over their life, studies show 
resilience decreases. From talking to some friends from lower income families, 
things like being positive and taking risks are harder, things self-help 
articles often proclaim to be something you can just flip a switch and do to 
improve your life.

If so much of your previous experience has pointed at outcomes turning out 
negatively, you'd be delusional to bank on positivity changing things. If one 
mistake would bring your whole livelihood crashing down, how can you be 
confident that things will get better?  If so much of your well being is outside 
of your control, how can you feel like anything is possible?

##Manageable Adversity

I'M IN A POSITION WHERE THE ADVERSITY I FACE HAS OUTS. PEOPLE HAVE HELPED ME 
FACE THEM / THEY DIDN'T JEOPARDIZE MY ENTIRE WELL BEING. I COULD STILL FUNCTION 
WHILE FACING THEM, WHICH MADE IT EASIER TO FACE THEM.

NOT EVERYONE HAS THAT. TALK TO FRIENDS AND HOPELESSNESS MAKES IT HARDER TO 
FOLLOW SELF HELP ADVICE / DO OTHER THINGS TO TURN THINGS AROUND.

I WANT IT SUCH THAT EVERYONE HAS ENOUGH CONTROL THAT THEY CAN TURN THINGS AROUND 
/ ADVERSITY IS MANAGEABLE AND NOT ALL CONSUMING

How to help others with adversity when it's too great? Setting up a safety net 
for them. Give them other choices.

By not having such things weigh on my mind, I'm able to take risks more easily 
and go about everything else in life seemingly with more of a breeze. I was able 
to focus full time on my education without having to take on part time jobs, and 
that led me to further opportunities. I'm able to take half a year off from 
working to travel because I don't have anyone depending on me for survival, and 
I'm confident I can still get a job when I'm back. Or even if I can't, I won't 
die because I have a home I can stay at until I figure things out again. __Even 
the fact that I have mental space in thinking about inequality is because 
everything else in my life is secure enough.__

And everything is secure enough because I have a safety net, provided by my 
friends and family. But that safety net doesn't exist for everyone. For some, if 
they fall, that's it, it's hard to recover. So they can't take the opportunities 
even when they're right in front of them. My belief is society should provide 
that safety net for everyone, since not everyone has the family to provide it.

##Required Changes

I don't fully understand the problems of other groups, nor am I in a position to 
solve or eliminate other people's adversity for them. But what software can help 
do is provide platforms for communities to help them solve their own problems 
  better. To elevate their voices and allow them to combine their efforts across 
  the globe. There's a lot of research that shows community helps people build 
  resilience and help them feel less isolated.

That's all I can think of on the front of eliminating the bad kinds of 
adversity. On the front of providing a safety net / giving people more control, 
what I think would help is:

- Improve the state of mental health help available
- Improve the state of health care so that if someone is sick, it doesn't ruin 
  their life. TODO Stat from Option B about $400.
- Improve access to education so that if everything else is stable, and they 
  make an effort, they can gain the skills to open up new opportunities.
- Provide shelters for people so they can not worry about survival. Or maybe 
  just universal basic income would suffice in this front. We worry about such a 
  thing being squandered on some, where they just blow it on drugs. Well, if 
  they do, so be it. At least the opportunity to do otherwise was provided to 
  them.
- Provide platforms to fund and create opportunities for people to get started 
  in making a living

##Specific Solutions

Most things that help one faction come at the expense of another. Safety nets 
funded by society come from someone's pocket and at the cost of another cause 
someone else is interested in. Ideally we'd be able to arrive at win-win 
solutions, but I don't have any specific ideas myself. That's where my initial 
request from you comes in!

If I were to think in a Theory of Change way, tech probably isn't even the right 
way to make these changes happen, so if I truly wanted to make the most impact 
on these, I'd consider changing professions. But currently I still believe tech 
can help in building tools towards these issues, and I'm not yet willing to 
completely let go of all the comfort and privileges a tech job allows me.

I don't expect myself to work on or change all of them. I just want to work on 
something that is directionally correct. Even though the world will never be 
completely fair, I'd like to hope we can make it as fair as possible within 
society's control.
