---
layout: post
title: "Fired"
tagline: "Part 1 of recent reflections: The Past"
date: 2018-11-20 00:00:00
publish: false

---

I got dumped again. This time not by a person, but by a company. The why is 
always murky to the dumpee. The dumper presents you with some explanations, you 
develop some of your own theories, the reality is probably a mix of both as well 
as other unsaid reasons.

The short answer to my understanding is I was not a good fit for what the 
company needed (anymore? ever? the more I think about it the more I can't tell), 
and they didn't have the resources to wait for me to grow into it.  Like with a 
relationship, even if you have the potential to be an amazing partner, if you're 
not meeting the needs of the other in the present, it's reasonable that they'd 
choose to not wait around for you to get where they need you to be.

The days immediately after, I experienced all the stages of grief, cycling from 
one to another and back. After I finished processing things logically, I thought 
I'd reached acceptance and was proceeding along with my life as normal, but even 
now I find myself periodically falling into a state of malaise; unmotivated to 
do activities I usually enjoy, only capable of mindlessly watching TV. I wanted 
  to work on a side project but found it hard to get myself to code again. When 
  I stumble into the Mission district passing by the office, I unexpectedly end 
  up in a state of anxiety. I know I'll be okay eventually, but it's taking 
  longer than I expected to get there. My hope is in structuring my thoughts 
  here, I can reach closure faster.

It's crazy how everything in life spirals together. When I get into that state, 
it's hard to get myself to exercise and eat healthy. Then I get groggier and 
more drained by social interaction and I want to do even less. I have to 
constantly remind my inner critic that being lazy, fat, unlikeable, and/or 
incompetent are not parts of my identity, just my perception of my current 
state, which is changeable.

Despite hitting one of my lowest lows, I'm glad I went through this latest 
segment of my life. I got to find and push the current upper limit of my 
abilities as an engineer, and learned a lot in the process.

My previous definition of a "good" engineer was based on what I'd seen in 
school, where we competed for the brand name companies and thrived in the energy 
of hackathons. A good engineer was someone who worked for prestigious 
institutions and could crank out entire tomes of code in days. After many 
failures, I'd finally reached what I deemed to be that benchmark and I convinced 
myself I was hot shit. I'd worked at one of the best companies in the world and 
received solid performance reviews there, and then I worked at a "YC-backed 
startup" as "engineer number one".

I now see that all of those optics are meaningless. Those labels don't mean I 
actually accomplished anything of substance for the world. And it certainly did 
not mean I was good at my job.

My current definition of a good engineer is someone who supports the rest of the 
company without fail. The scope of this changes as the size of the company does, 
but the gist is that a good engineer doesn't just optimize for speed, but 
balances making changes happen fast (whether through writing code or not) with 
ensuring changes are reliable (catch all unexpected edge cases) and 
forward-thinking (durable to future happenings).

Ideally changes would be done well _and_ fast, but when it's not possible, they 
know which direction to lean. Other stakeholders shouldn't have to sweat about 
technical details. They should be giving dependable time estimates for planning, 
or when it's not possible, understandably convey and resolve blockers.

Many of these criteria I got better at, but still have room to improve in:
- With my previous definition of an engineer, I sometimes gave off an arrogant 
  vibe and was blind to my own mistakes
- When I make mistakes, depending on the communication style of others, I can 
  get defensive and not properly acknowledge my mistake, making it harder to 
  resolve
- If an issue seems urgent, I sometimes jump into implementations without 
  without giving enough thought to the edge cases / if I'm making the right 
  decisions / working with others through it
- My architecture skills are still lacking, so I don't always have confidence in 
  my designs, leading to compounded stress when systems get complicated
- When I'm extremely stressed, I can be snappy and poor at explaining my 
  thoughts, making it hard for others to communicate and work with me

I've got some ideas for how to work on some of these in the immediate future, 
but most of them will require me to keep them in mind as I encounter similar 
scenarios again. I may have failed this time around, but that does not mean I am 
forever an incompetent engineer, and I will work to ensure I don't make the same 
mistakes again.
