---
layout: post
title: "Imperfection"
tagline: "Looking back on my quarter life crisis"
date: 2016-10-17 00:00:00
publish: true
category: blog

---

Growing up, I had a vision of "the perfect life". The description of it changed 
as I did, but there was always something to continue to strive for, just out of 
reach.

That is, until there wasn't.

Once I had been graduated for over a year, I realized this could very much be my 
life for the indefinite future. I was in beautiful California with my
closest friends, making decent money. I had reasonable work hours at a
fulfilling job, and some flexibility to travel. On paper, life was everything 
that I had envisioned it to be. I had nothing further that I cared to attain.

Yet I was not content.

I began to find issue with the tech scene. The monoculture, the gentrification.
I saw problems with my work, and I even became jaded with traveling, seeing it
as diminishing returns, talking to the same kinds of people no matter where I
went.

__I couldn't justify the discontentment__. How could I feel this way? This is 
what I had worked so hard to get to. So many other people would have loved to 
have this kind of life. I felt like I needed to change something somehow. Maybe 
my location or my profession. I didn't know what, but this couldn't be it, 
right?

## Discontentment is human

I talked to and read about other people who seemed to have "made it", and the 
more people I heard from, the more evident it became that there wasn't really 
such a thing as a perfect life. Everyone has problems, regardless of their 
status or achievements. Sometimes we get painted an unrealistic image from 
social media and it's hard to imagine others' complexities.

Travel bloggers get to experience the world but they have unstable schedules and 
deal with long bouts of loneliness. All-stars that shatter world records still 
fight with [identity
crises](http://www.espn.com/espn/feature/story/_/id/16425548/michael-phelps-prepares-life-2016-rio-olympics){:target="_blank"}.
People with more money than they know what to do with struggle with [living up
to
expectations](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2015-10-01/children-of-the-yuan-percent-everyone-hates-china-s-rich-kids){:target="_blank"}.
Friends who have it easy on Tinder find it devalues love for them &mdash; why 
try when another opportunity is just a swipe away?

What people faced had varying degrees of consequence to the outside world, but 
for each the inner turmoil seemed equally difficult to combat.

Maybe ultimately that's what we all have in common. No matter what stage of life 
we're in, we'll still find problems with our existence. We'll still experience 
dissatisfaction with our status quo. There's even a term in social psychology 
for this &mdash; hedonic adaptation. When something great happens too 
  frequently, we adjust our baseline happiness to it, and it no longer feels 
  great.

## Two options to contentment

So what can we do about this? The obvious solution is to make a change. If we 
know what we're unhappy about, adjust what we can until we're happy. That's 
often the default solution when we're chasing a dream, when we're blind to what 
could be wrong on the other side.

But what if we can't make a change? What if we're not privileged enough to have 
options, or we're so privileged as I am that there's nothing further to change?

The other solution is acceptance. Recognizing that different isn't always better 
and knowing that there'll always be some bad bits. We can be mindful and find 
gratitude for what we have, getting more out of the good times, and 
simultaneously, adjust our expectations for the bad and be okay with its 
existence. The unhappiness may still come, but that's simply part of being 
human. It's kind of amazing actually that we feel such a range of emotions.

So sometimes we may seem stuck with just one option to contentment, but when 
we're not, how do we decide which to go with? How do we ensure we're not trapped 
always chasing change, yet also not just settling? How do we balance ambition 
and affirmation?

Unfortunately I still don't have a good heuristic for that. It really varies 
case by case, but I think even just seeing that we have two options puts us in a 
better place than thinking we're confined to one.

## My aftermath

What have I chosen to do in my situation? I guess I'm doing a mix of both. I'm 
accepting that I have it quite good, and it's okay that sometimes it still feels 
bad. I'm accepting the Bay area for what it is. [The best parts of
a culture are also its
worst](https://markmanson.net/prove-yourself){:target="_blank"}, so as flawed as
the tech scene seems, there are many perks that come with it, and I'm 
appreciating those more now.

The monoculture means homogeneity in the people that I meet, but having so many 
like-minded people in one area means I easily meet people I get along with, and 
the tech scene is able to thrive from such like-minded people coming together to 
solve problems.

And traveling the way I did before may feel like diminishing returns, but there 
are other ways I can experience other places, like living there for longer 
periods of time to interact more with locals.

At the same time I'm making micro-adjustments to test what can further be 
improved. And I'm still planning to make a drastic change at some point. But now 
it's not that I need that change, but because I'd like to try it before I have 
real duties to deal with, when it'd be irresponsible for me to do so. A chance 
to explore what else is out there, to gain a better understanding of others 
outside of our bubble.

Is this the right choice? I don't really know. But that's okay! It's part of the 
beauty of living. If we made perfect decisions and had perfect lives, it'd 
actually be damn boring.
